---
layout: post
chapter: 8
title: "Persist Memory"
subtitle: "Initiating memory upload to persistent storage"
tags:
  - Chapter
---

Terminal

<code>
  $ persist-memory --verbose memory-payload.json devstory.db<br>
  Username: mikec<br>
  Password:
</code>

<code>
**Initiating memory upload to persistent storage.**<br>
Source: Recent Memory<br>
Destination: devStory Blog<br>
Payload Size: 18 Months
</code>

<code>
Printing verbose output. **DISCLAIMER:** The payload size is too large to print out all stored data. Persist Memory will detect the most poignant memories and display data pertinent to those. To force all data to be displayed use the option “--verbose-all”. Also note that memories will not appear in chronological order.
</code>

-------------------------------------------------------------

It’s easy to become complacent once you have a steady job. Why bust your hump on personal projects when you’ve got projects going on at work? Why bother blogging or using Twitter when you could be using that time to unwind after work or prepare for the next day of work? I don’t agree with this way of thinking, but I have fallen victim to it.

I’m going to be a concept artist. It’s been a dream of mine since I was in middle school, and I’ve finally decided to start pursuing it.

I need to get back to using Twitter.

[MEMORY ENCRYPTED. REASON: Confidential]

There can be a large disparity between who you believe you are and how you present yourself. This may seem like an obvious statement, but until you take the time examine what those differences are, you might be fooling yourself into thinking you are someone that you aren’t.

The lack of empathy in the world is extremely disheartening.

Docker is amazing! For over a year I’ve been struggling to understand what Docker actually is. Now that I’ve seen what a pain it can be to manage a backend application amongst a team, I’m beginning to understand.

For several years, I’ve believed that my source of happiness in life was helping others.  While I’ll still believe that’s true to some extent (as it probably is for everyone), I no longer think it’s the most accurate statement. It was nice to think of myself as an altogether selfless person, but I think there was some wishful thinking involved in that conclusion. If I’m being honest, I think my true source of happiness is creativity. I just like to make stuff.

I’ve decided to become a data scientist.

I just finished two cups of Anxi Qilan tea from the Wuyi mountains of the Fujian province of China. I’m about to brew a couple more. It’s an oolong tea that smells like a field of flowers and tastes like a mixture of honey and vegetables. If you steep it too long, it quickly grows bitter, but an under-steeped cup is more forgiving.

[MEMORY ENCRYPTED. REASON: Politically charged]

Admittedly, intuition isn’t a reliable source of information. It can’t be quantified, graphed, or otherwise analyzed. It is an individual, abstract thing with no conceivable probability of success or failure to anyone other than the intuition-er. Therefore, it’s easy to say that no one should rely on intuition. Heck, who even knows if intuition exists? It’s probably just a word for unconscious thought culminating in a semi-logical conclusion. The fact is, we all feel some form of intuition. So, we can either choose to use it or ignore it. I choose to use it.

It’s way past time for me to start blogging again.

I think I might be a stoic. Before today, I didn’t even know what stoicism was, but I think I’m a stoic now.

I’ve never thought to compare religion and philosophy, but they’re very closely related. If someone chooses to conform to a way of life based on a philosophical belief, how is that any different from following a religion? I’m sure it’s more nuanced than that, but it seems like an apt comparison.

Why should I pursue art or writing when it is more practical for me to spend my time building applications? I love sketching and I love creating stories, but investing into a skill that already makes me money is simply too practical to ignore.

I should really start tweeting again. I’m also going to start working on a blog post tonight. And I’m going to actually publish it this time.

Python is a fantastic language. Don’t tell anyone else I said this, but I might like it even more than JavaScript.

Complacency is killing me. I need to do something crazy. Wait. No. Not crazy. Something...different.

[MEMORY ENCRYPTED. REASON: Game of Thrones spoilers]

Do we love React because it’s better or because it was first? I mean, React is very well established and probably isn’t going anywhere. But Vue is pretty dope.

My current perspective on the human condition: No matter how many ways people rephrase the idea “Money can’t buy happiness,” people who have not experienced it themselves will not end their pursuit of wealth.

I’m encouraged by my generation’s appreciation for the importance of mental health.

I aggressively envy people with an exceptional skill for data visualization.

547.5 days of memories saved (0.1 days of memories printed).
