---
layout: post
chapter: 8
title: "A Web of Paths"
subtitle: ""
tags:
  - Chapter
  - Life
  - Lesson
---

I’ve decided I’m going to be a data scientist.

Now, before you can appreciate this statement, there’s a few things you have to understand. Firstly, I’ve used several variations of this declaration over the years. When I was a kid, I told my father I was going to be a “Fire Fire,” which you grown up folk might know as a Fireman. When I was in college, I told myself I was meant to be a comic book creator (after all, I loved both writing AND drawing). A little over a year ago, I [shared with all of you](http://localhost:4000/posts/chapter-6/) that I intended to become an expert in AI. A year later, we've arrived back in the neighborhood of AI: Data science.

The second thing you should know is that, although I hold almost none of the titles I've given myself over the years, I haven't given up on them. I don't write as much as I used to, but I still intend to be an author someday. A few months ago, I started drawing every day and I got pretty good, then I stopped. Something better came along. Still, I fully intend to return to art in the future. The situation I find myself in now is a pretty good example of what I'm describing.

When I was in high school, I became interested in AI. Then, I got distracted by something else and forgot about AI for a while. Then, last year, I remembered my fasciantion with AI and started working on chatbots. That was around the time I found a new job, so AI fell by the wayside for quite a while. Now, here I am, almost a decade after my interest first kindled. It's never too late to get started.

For the past few weeks, I've been studying machine learning (ML). I've got several git repositories of ML resources that I've been working with, ranging from lists of articles to free online courses to Python problems. I feel like my understanding is developing pretty quickly, though I know I'm lacking a lot of necessary background knowledge. Right now, I'm just focusing on being able to solve problems with ML. That means I'll be able to create and deliver APIs that accomplish a task, even if I don't fully understand how the API works. Then, I intend to go back and improve my understanding of the algorithms that make ML possible.

So, what makes me think **now** is the right time for me to tackle AI? Mainly, my life is less in flux now than it has been since I was in high school. I have a good job that I intend to stick with for the forseeable future. Conviniently (but not coincidentally), that job is directly related to AI and ML. It just makes sense.

You'll notice that I said I want to be a data scientist rather than a developer. I'm not just interested in the development side; I'm interested in data in general. I'm interested in the hidden knowledge that can be found in data, and I'm interested in sharing that with people who can benefit from it. I'm still learning the ins and outs of data science, so I can't really speak to anything specific I want to do. I'm still learning and exploring.

Who knows where this path will lead me.