---
layout: post
chapter: 4
title: "Too Many Hats"
subtitle: "You can't do everything, but that won't stop you from trying"
tags:
  - Chapter
  - Twitch
---

I often call myself a compulsive creator. The irony of this is that I want to create so many things that I usually end up creating nothing.

The worst part of this problem is that I sometimes wonder whether I'm the only person this happens to. Of course I'm not, but it can feel that way sometimes. We live in a world of social media, where everyone's lives are presented as a highlight reel. I'll be the first person to tell you that I create a lot of garbage, but if you look at my Facebook feed, you probably wouldn't know that.

I throw away more writing than I publish. I erase more designs than I develop. I hate more ideas than I love. The best explanation I have for any of this is that I'm just too ambitious.

<h3>You ask, "Isn't ambition a good thing?"</h3>

Ambition is a healthy thing. Like all healthy things, it's dangerous too have either too little or too much. I've written about this exact topic before, but it didn't change my behavior. Unfortately, awareness of a problem of a problem doesn't fix it. Over-ambition is a problem and I haven't figured out how to solve it.

<h3>"I'd like to know what you've tried," you request with a creak of concern in your voice.</h3>

Oh, well, my main strategy has been to simply do less. I try to take on less projects at once and focus on doing a great job at just a couple of things. That only works for so long, though. Eventually, the reality of my own mortality reminds me that I need to get everything done **right now** because my gosh, I'm already 22 years old and I thought I'd be changing the world by now. I can barely afford lunch.

So, yeah, that doesn't work.

My other technique is to set the bar lower. For years, I've been shooting for the stars with pretty much every project I do. To be fair, it has paid off in the past. However, it doesn't always work that way. In fact, it usually just causes me to burn out before I finish the project.

It's great to want to change the world, but average people like us have to steadily build our way there. It won't happen over night for most of us.

<h3>You raise an eyebrow. "What prompted you to tell me this? Did something happen?"</h3>

I think I've just finally resigned to the fact that I'm doomed to suffer in my own ambition. I know that sounds despressing, but it's actually not. I love working my ass off as long as I'm doing something I care about. I'm working on a half-dozen things I care about.

I've finally started my own business, and it's doing alright. People are paying me to write! I didn't think that would happen for another few years! I'm working on an indie game team. I didn't think that would **ever** happen. I'm working on multiple web apps, writing a comic book script, rewritting a novel, and helping new people market their businesses every week.

If I can find a way to do this for a living, I'll be in heaven. The only problem right now is that I'm not getting paid enough for any of it. People pay for results, not ambition.

<h3>A bald man with a wrinkled face swats the air from the corner of the room. "Back in **my** day, we hardly got paid for anything at all. You should just get a **real** job."</h3>

I probably should. Honestly, the smart thing for me to do would be to just find a job doing anything that will pay me enough to get me through college. But, my god, I would die in die.

Guys, I would die.

Okay, that's over dramatic. I would suck it up and flip some burgers if I had to. It would suck, and it would mean I'd have to sleep less to get more work done, but I'd do it.

But I won't unless I absolutely have to. If I never work a cash register again, it'll be too soon.

<h3>You frown. "So what are you going to do now?"</h3>

I'm going to sleep less and work more. I'm going to take more and more paying work until I have enough experience to charge more, and then I'm going to do what I love until the day I die.

That's the dream, and I'm not going to stop reaching for it.

My ambition level is unhealthy, but we all have unhealthy habits. When we conclude we can't fight our habits, we learn to live with them. If we can, we try to use them to our benefit. Well, I'm trying—I'm trying **hard**.


<h3>Are you over ambitious too? How do you deal with it? Do you think ambition is unhealthy? Leave a comment so we can talk about it!</h3>
