---
layout: post
chapter: 3
title: "Mind Control 101"
subtitle: "The Web, Conformity, and You"
tags:
  - Chapter
  - Development
  - Design
---

There are two kinds of people on this planet: Those who are changed by the world, and those who change the world. Some people are content to simply exist on this planet and seek personal happiness. These are the people who prefer not to rock the boat and cling to the popular way of doing things. They conform, because it's easier, and perhaps even smarter.

On the other hand, there are people like us.

**<h3>"Who? Who's not smart? I want to be smart."</h3>**

Web developers and designers tend to fall into the second category of people. Many of us are creatives who didn't enter this career just to make money. We want to help people or express ourselves or change the whole damn world. And that's exactly how it *should* be.

Unfortunately, it's just not in our nature to be subversive.

**<h3>O...kay...want to explain that last word to me?</h3>**

Let me give you an example of what I mean. Last week, the two popular YouTubers called the Fine Brothers announced that they were creating a network called React World, whereby other YouTubers could work with them to create offshoots of Fine Brothers content. However, they didn't explain it like this at all.

The Fine Brothers' announcement video, which has since been removed, focused on the exact wrong thing: Legality. The video is laced with legal terms and several outright uses of the word "legal". That, combined with their over-the-moon tone was enough to send the internet into an uproar.

One major source of backlash was [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/videos/comments/43490c/the_fine_bros_from_youtube_are_now_attempting_to/), a website infamous for it's tendency to generate hive minds and incite witch hunts. In less than a day, the Fine Brothers went from regarded YouTubers to some of the most hated people on the internet.

Here is the most important part, though: **Despite having little or no understanding of the situation, many people outwardly angry at the Fine Brothers.** In true internet fashion, people made personal attacks on the Brothers. Unsubscribing from their channel became a celebrated act. A few popular YouTubers even hopped on board, berating the Fine Brothers because they knew it was the popular thing to do.

**<h3>"Nice story, but can you get to the point? Isn't this a blog about web development?"</h3>**

The significance here is that web developers exist on the same conformist internet as the Fine Brothers. It can be unbelievably scary, and even dangerous. If we're diligent, though, we can use that conformity to our advantage.

As I mentioned before, we are the people who want to change the world, not unlike the Fine Brothers. And, frankly, we want to make money from our skills, not unlike the Fine Brothers. It's not difficult to imagine that, if we move too far from the herd, we could get just as burned as the Brothers.

But that's exactly the reason we need to lead the herd instead of following along. Mob mentality and herd behavior are just a part of human nature. More than a few times, I've caught myself being swayed by the popular opinion on Reddit or YouTube. It's up to us, the world-changers, to combat that.

We can't just watch for trends, we have to actively engage with them—analyze them, criticize them, and even create them. Influencers ganged up on the Fine Brothers because it was the hot thing to do, but wouldn't it have been just as hot to play devil's advocate?

**<h3>"This is noble and everything, but you said yourself that I want to make money. How does this apply to my professional practices?"</h3>**

Today, attention is money. If you're leading a herd, you're controlling the market. The bigger the herd, the bigger the gains and the losses.

If you're just following the popular trends and opinions, you shouldn't expect to be the next Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk. If you want to be great, you have to make a serious effort to be different. You can't just pay attention to where the market is, you have to know where it's going. Then, you have to act on that knowledge.

That's why you're a world-*changer*.

**<h3>Could you be a little more specific? Perhaps share your thoughts in a convenient list format?</h3>**

1. Never stop solving problems: Problems are the best source of innovation. Take note of things that bug you or piss you off, then fix them.

2. Share your thoughts: If you want to lead a herd, you have to give people a reason to follow. Start a blog or YouTube channel. Tweet. Speak up.

3. Promote open-minded content: The internet can really suck, but you can help make it better. Share content from world-changers who engage in conversation instead of regurgitating popular opinion.

4. Tell stories: People think in stories. If you want to be heard, learn how to communicate in stories. I highly recommend [The Storytelling Animal](http://www.amazon.com/The-Storytelling-Animal-Stories-Human/dp/0544002342) by Jonathan Gottschall.
